[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: All right so let's go
ahead and go get some text from an input.
>> Brian Holt: So here we have
an input and we have a button, right?
Remember the void tabs right?
That's an input right here.
And then we have this button right here,
the alert button, it says click me.
And then we're loading the script.
That's all the HTML does.
Let's go ahead and
just make this a lot bigger, okay.
Pretty straightforward.
>> Brian Holt: And then here,
we're gonna set up an event listener.
That when they click it it's gonna
grab the name out of the name input.
Which is this one right?
And then we're gonna grab the value out of
it which is what the .val function does.
And then after that we're going to alert
that name so, if I say Brian right here.
And then click me it's gonna
give me back my name right or
you can even have it greet you and say,
hey, okay.
Again, we can type Brian and
it's going to say hey Brian.
So again this is kind of
a contrived example but
I'm sure you can see why
this would be useful right?
Like if you're trying to
log someone in right?
You need to get the user name and
password out of the form and
send it to your server so you can verify
it and then it can be sent back down and
say you have good credentials or
you have bad credentials.
Questions about that?
>> Student 1: Can you show the HTML for
this?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Student 1: I think there's a question.
The button there, it has the type in it.
They're saying that sometimes
they see it with that.
Sometimes they see it without that.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
I think I've done both.
So that's a fair accusation.
Buttons by default are what
are called submit buttons.
So if they're in a form,
they're gonna try and submit the form,
which without going into a whole lot of
detail about what that actually does,
it's actually gonna try and
reload your page or it's gonna try and
go to a different page if you don't
tell it what type of button it is.
In this particular case I
believe I could just remove it.
No one would care because it's
not actually in a form right.
>> Brian Holt: So,
it's a good habit to get into.
As you can see I'm not always in said
habits so but if it was inside of a form,
it would make a bigger difference.
>> Student 2: By inside a form,
you mean inside a form tag?
>> Brian Holt: Literally a form tag,
all right?
Form, wow, I did not want to do that.
So, inside a form tag like this and
then there is a view closing
form tag down here, right?
And then this would make a difference.
But because there's no form tab,
because we're not worrying about it,
it's cool the way it is.
>> Brian Holt: Good question, though.
Other questions about this?
>> Brian Holt: Hopefully
it's pretty straightforward.
Let's just take a level of
one step further here, oops.
So, after we alert the name.
We dont wanna keep alerting
the same name over and over again.
So, what we wanna do is we
wanna clear out the input.
So, I'll show you that effect first and
then I'll explain to what it is.
So, that's my name.
Click me, it's gonna say hey man and then
it's gonna clear out the input, right.
That's what this val if you
give it a string is gonna do.
In this particular case I have
given it an empty string so
it's going to set the input
to be an empty string.
Like if I said hey, and I put Brian here.
Type a bunch of stuff and you click me.
What's it going to say after I click OK?
It's going to say Brian, right?
So this dot val with
the string provided to it,
it's going to set the value of the input.
>> Brian Holt: But again,
we're just going to set it to be blank
because that's kind of
an intuitive thing to do, right?
We want that to say hey Nina.
It says that right there.
Then you click OK and then it's gone.
>> Student 3: So that's a blocking,
the alert box is kind of
a blocking type input.
What happens if you have multiple
functions, multiple listeners?
Is JavaScript multi-threaded?
Is it going to handle this simultaneously?
Or is it just going to
block on that first one,
whichever one it randomly caught first.
>> Brian Holt: It's going
to block first of all.
So the sum of that story is don't
actually use alerts in production.
Because the alert will
actually pause the execution
of JavaScript until
the user interacts with it.
It's really bad user experience.
>> Student 1: Not quite sure
what they're referencing, but
what about if it was a placeholder?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah sure,
I mean we can show that too.
You can say place folder right here,
your name, okay?
This is HTML right?
This is, we're going back to HTML,
this has nothing to do with jQuery or
JavaScript.
But I'm sure you've seen this before,
like the grayed out wording in
the background right there.
It's kind of hard to see right now,
see how it says your name right there?
And then as soon as I start
typing it disappears.
That's an HTML5 thing,
super useful, but yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, more questions?
>> Brian Holt: This makes sense,
using the values, clearing out the values,
that kind of stuff?
Cool.